In an earlier lesson of this course, we generated a basic website where you could write about yourself, your interests, and the projects you've worked on. However, this was created before you were looking for jobs! In this lesson, we'll review how to add more information to your website to make it more professional and provide examples from others' websites. We hope that by the end of this lesson you'll have a website is helpful to those interested in hiring you! Note: If you weren't able to successfully create a website previously, this was covered in the Introduction to R course, so feel free to return to the "Creating Websites with R" lesson now to see if you have more success now that you have more experience!

To follow along with this lesson, be sure to navigate to the R Studio Cloud space where you created your website in the earlier lesson. Navigate to the directory of your repository. You should be in cloud project username dot github dot com at this point. Then, in the Terminal use git pull to be sure that you have the most updated version from Git Hub. In the last lesson where we generated your basic website, we reviewed how to include a picture of yourself. However, maybe at that point you hadn't yet decided on what picture you would use across all your professional accounts. We'll discuss at this point again how to include a picture of yourself on your website before moving onto further customizations. If you've already added an image of yourself and are happy with it, move onto the next section, "About." If you don't have one already, you'll want to create a img directory within your repository. You can use m k dir space img  in the terminal to do so. In that directory, you'll want upload a picture. You can Upload the image into this directory using the "Upload" icon in the Files tab of R Studio Cloud. For our example, we have uploaded a file called Jane dot png. If you don't have an image, take a screenshot of your Git Hub profile and rename it accordingly. You can verify your upload worked using the l s function. If ls img returns the name of the file you uploaded, you're ready to go! (If it doesn't, go ahead and make sure that the picture was successfully uploaded *and* that it is in the img directory.) 

Now that we have the image, you'll have to add the code you see at the top of this slide to your index dot R m d file to have the image display on your website. This code introduces the image and specifies the width of the image in pixels. We want a small image, so we are setting it to 100 pixels. After knitting and pushing to Git Hub, you will now have a website with an image! 

This is about where we left off in the last lesson. You should have a website that looks very similar to what you see here. We previously had you add some About text, but now you really want to make sure this is up-to-date and complete. Your about section should be a line or two briefly describing your current positions and data science interests. To see exactly what we mean, let's look at a few examples from the websites from people currently working in data science.

Here we're looking at the about section from Nathan Yau's website. In his about me section, Nathan briefly explains what he does followed by where to find some of his work. He finishes with some of his interests outside of work. If you want to see more of Nathan's work, check out https://flowingdata.com/.

Here we have another example from Mona Chalabi, a journalist who generates illustrations from data. Mona introduces what she does, describes where to find her work, and then provides some background information about her professional work.

Our final example comes from someone whose work you've seen throughout this course, David Robinson. In his about me, he mentions his current position and interests, describes briefly some of his work, and provides a bit of background.

These three examples should give you an idea of what to include in the "About Me" section of your website. Generally, consider including your current position (if applicable), soem background information, and where to find projects you've worked on. You'll additionally want to add a few interests in the "Interests" section. This should include at least a few data science-centric interests, but if you would like, you can also include a few additional interests here, as you saw some people did in the previous examples. 

To edit this on your website, you would edit the text in the "About" and "Interests" section of your index dot R m d file. 

If someone looking to hire you found your website, they should be able to easily navigate to your other professional social media platforms from your website. Thus, if you haven't already, you'll want to be sure that you include links to your Git Hub, your LinkedIn, and your Twitter in the "Profiles" section of your index dot R m d file. 

Additionally, in the Projects section, you'll want to include links to (and images from if possible!) any complete projects. We'll discuss this more in the next lesson!After you've updated your links and projects, be sure to "Knit" your file before pushing your changes to Git Hub. 

You'll get to see a preview of your updates before you put them on the Internet.

Once you've pushed to Git Hub, the changes should be visible on your website! Note that you may have to wait a minute or two after pushing to Git Hub to see them.

In this lesson, we've discussed the basics of what information should be on your professional website. However, there are lots of ways to customize your website beyond what was covered in this lesson. There are tutorials you can use to learn more. You can go to one of these tutorials using the link in the video. In fact, the website for this program was created with R Markdown. Feel free to use the tutorial we justed mentioned and to check out the Git Hub for this course's website at https://github.com/jhudsl/chromebookdatascience to see what changes you would need to make to add additional pages to or to change the formatting of your website.