One of the barriers to a job in data science has been that data science positions have historically required individuals to move to one of the tech hubs throughout the world, such as Silicon Valley in California, for their job. However, over time, there has been a move by many companies to allow for more remote work. This has sometimes meant that individuals could work from home a few days a week while requiring that individual physically be in the office for the rest of the time. But, there has also been a shift to allowing individuals to work remotely full-time. The course work in this Course Set has been developed so that it can be done from anywhere as we recognize that most individuals cannot simply uproot their lives and move to where the courses are being taught. Similarly, we wanted to dedicate a lesson to how to find remote data science jobs! 

We'll start this lesson by noting that remote jobs can be listed on any of the platforms discussed in the last lesson. The job description may mention "remote work possible" or may state the location of the job to be "Anywhere." In these cases, a move will likely not be required should you get the job. For example, for the RStudio careers discussed in the last lesson, the position for each position posted is either anywhere in the USA or is not specified. While many companies have not yet shifted to allow remote work, some have. Identifying companies that do allow remote work, if that's what you're looking for, can be incredibly helpful.

Additionally, if you're using any of the platforms discussed in the last lesson, you can often specify that you're looking for remote positions in your search. For example, on StackOverflow you specify that the location is "remote," you will get a list of remote positions that meet the rest of your search criteria.

The same goes for LinkedIn, where you can specify that you're looking for remote positions.

In addition to finding remote work positions on the platforms we've previously discussed, Remote O K dot i o is a site dedicated to hosting job postings that allow individuals to work remotely. Specifically, remote data science jobs can be found on this site at https://remoteok.io/remote-data-science-jobs.

For example, here we have a job posting for a "Data Analyst" position at Komoot. The job posting looks pretty typical. There is an introduction to the company and a list of key responsibilities for the position.

However, there is an additional section explaining why working for this company is a great experience. Among these is listed the fact that you can work from wherever you want. 

The job posting finishes as the others we've looked at have. In includes a section on the technical and business skills along with personality traits you'll need to be successful at their company and finishes with what documents you'll need to apply. Thus, there won't be much difference between the job postings that allow remote work and those positions that do not. However, if being able to work from home matters to you or if you are unable to re-locate, it is important that you focus your search to identify positions and companies that will allow this to be possible.

In this lesson we discuss how and where to look for remote positions, should you be unable to relocate or prefer working from your own home.