A lesson on attending data science meetups is included in this course since these gatherings can be great places to meet people in the field, to network, and possibly to find jobs. However, the main purpose of meetups is not to find a job, thus, we've included this lesson at the end of the course. Here, we suggest attending meetups if you're looking for a job but more importantly before you start looking for a job. Having connections and a network to help you before you actually need one can be incredibly helpful. In this lesson, we'll discuss where to look for data science meetups and what you can expect if you attend one. We'll finish off by briefly discussing what data science meetups have to do with job searches

Meetups in your area will generally be searchable on Meetup dot com and specifically data science meetups can be found at the URL on the video. Data Science meetups are happening worldwide!

If you sign up for an account on the site, Meetup dot com will suggest groups for you to join and from upcoming meetups to attend!

If you find a meeting you're interested in going to at a time when you're free, you can let the organizers know you're going. Note that if you say you're going and later decide you won't be able to make it, be sure to go back in and change your response. It's not fair to organizers to have people say they're going and not be able to make it.

Once you've decided to attend a meetup, you've completed step 1. The next step is to show up. The final and most important step is to network and talk to others once you're at the meetup. At most of these, there will be a lot of people who don't know anyone, so know that you're in good company. It can be difficult to strike up a conversation with others there, but remember, people are at these to meet others in their field or people with similar interests -- they want to meet you and are probably also feeling awkward about striking up a conversation! But, since you're already there, it's best to put yourself out there and meet people! Often there will be a time to network and chat in the beginning. Then, there may be a presentation or two. Hopefully at the end there's some more time to chat with others. Meetups are a great place to meet new people and to learn new things!

So far we've discussed where to find out about what meetups there are in your area and about how you can learn new information and meet people with similar interests. However, this is a course about getting jobs. Well, admittedly, meetups are not the best place to look for jobs, but they are a great place to build a network and meet people. Meetups are most helpful in your job search if you start going to them and building up your network before you really need a job. After meeting people at these meetups, you can follow them on Twitter or exchange emails to discuss project ideas! This is a great step in networking! However, if you're at a meetup and are looking for a job, that's a good thing to bring up in conversation. If the people you're chatting with know of any leads or know that their company is hiring, they'll pass that information along to you!

In this brief lesson we discussed the benefits of building your network, attending meetups, and getting to know people in your field in person! Check out the meetups in your area and start to meet people! 